Hello again!
In this video, we are going to talk about how to choose a thread object,
amongst some other odds and ends
to finish off the section.
In the async function lecture, I did not cover how to deal with exceptions, so let's look at that now.
If you remember back to when we were looking at promises and futures,
we had a situation where a thread
threw an exception and it was passed through a promise, to a future object.
And then when we called get() on that future, we put a try-catch block around it.
So we're going to do the same thing here.
We get a future when we call async() and then when we call get() on that future,
we are going to put it
inside a try block.
And if the future contains a value, then we will get the value. If it contains an exception, then
it is going to throw the exception when we call get()
and then the catch block will come into play.
I have got a function which will return a value, so let's try that first without the exception,
just
to make sure that it works.
So our future is calling
get()...
And in this case, there was no exception,
so we got a value and we did not go into the catch block.
Now let's uncomment the exception...
and try it again.
So we are calling get()...
And they we are.
So when we called get(), an exception was thrown
and this was caught and we went into the catch block.
OK, so that is the main function...
We just have the usual include files.
So we now have three different ways in which we can create a thread.
We can call the async() function,
we can create a packaged task object, or we can create a standard thread object.
So what are the relative strengths and weaknesses of these.
And when should we use them?
async() is the simplest way to start a task.
We can use it and get the return value from a task function.
If the task function throws an exception,
we can get that as well.
We can choose whether we want to run the task synchronously or asynchronously.
If we need to do something that might block, but we need to remain responsive,
then we can call
async() to run the work in the background.
async() provides a higher level of abstraction than the standard thread class.
The library will manage the
threads for us, so we do not need to start
threads and join them.
We can get threads to communicate using messages instead of shared data,
so we do not need to worry
about mutexes and atomic variables.
The main disadvantage of async() is that there is no way to have a thread which is detached.
The reason for this is the way that the future destructor is designed.
The future has some shared
state which is used for passing results and exceptions and so on.
When we have a thread that is launched with the launch_async policy, then the destructor will block until the
thread has completed.
So that means the future will always wait for the thread.
Packaged task is the best choice if we want to represent a task as an object.
For example, if we are creating
a container of tasks.
A packaged task is an object so we can move it onto a particular thread and make it execute on that thread,
which we cannot do with async() because async() is not an object.
It has less overhead than async() and is more flexible.
And the standard thread class is the most flexible of all.
We can use it to access the underlying software
thread so we can use features which are provided by the operating system, but not supported by standard
C++.
And you can also detach standard thread if you want to.
My recommendations are that you would normally use async() for starting a thread.
Bjarne Stroustrup says that async() is the equivalent of range for loops.
If you want to iterate over all the elements in a container once,
then you would use a range for
loop.
If you want something a bit more specific, if you only want to iterate over some of the elements or
you want to add or remove elements,
then you would use a lower level loop and write some more code.
And similarly, if you want to do something more specialized, which isn't supported by async(), then
you would use the standard thread class and write some extra code.
If you want to create containers of thread objects, then use a packaged task.
If you have done asynchronous programming in other languages,
then you may notice that there are a few
things I have not covered,
and these are actually missing from C++11.
The biggest omission is continuations.
When you have a continuation, you can start off several tasks which
run in a sequence.
So you could say, for example, assemble 20 units, take them over there, then tell Joe in
the workshop that you have done it.
With C++11, you would have to say make up 20 units.
Have you done that?
Okay, take them over there.
Okay.
Tell Joe in the warehouse.
So the difference is that the thread that is controlling all these tasks has to keep waiting for them
and starting up new threads.
It cannot just start off several threads and let them run while it does something
else.
In C++11, we can only wait on a single future from async().
There is no support for waiting on multiple
futures.
So you cannot start off lots of tasks and wait for them all to finish.
You have to check each one individually.
There is also no support for waiting on any task.
So you cannot start lots of tasks and then wait until the first one finishes.
In C++20, the future implementation is going to be extended, so these will be supported.
There is also a lot of other changes.
At the moment, C++20 has been agreed.
It is just waiting the final stamp that says, it is an official
standard and then we will have to wait for compilers to support this.
If you cannot wait until then,
there is something called the concurrency TS, which has been around
for several years and is basically a test bed for these new features.
The other limitation, which we have mentioned before, is that there is not a concurrent queue in the
standard and unfortunately there is not going to be one in C++20.
OK, so that's it for this video.
I'll see you next time, but meanwhile, keep coding!